.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/BUG.md, before:

---
name: 🐞 Bug Report
about: Something went awry and you'd like to tell us about it.

---

<!--
  ⚡️ katchow! We 💛 issues.

  Please - do not - remove this template.
  Please - do not - skip or remove parts of this template.
  Or your issue may be closed.

  👉🏽 Need help or tech support? Please don't open an issue!
  Head to https://gitter.im/rollup/rollup or https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/rollupjs

  ❤️ Rollup? Please consider supporting our collective:
  👉 https://opencollective.com/rollup/donate
-->

- Rollup Version (if applicable):
- Operating System (or Browser):
- Node Version:
- NPM Version:

### How Do We Reproduce?

<!--
  Issues without minimal reproductions will be closed! Please provide a repro by:
  1. Using the REPL at https://rollupjs.org/repl, or
  2. Provide a repository link (Read https://git.io/fNzHA for instructions)
-->


### Expected Behavior


### Actual Behavior


<!--
  Most issues can be expressed or demonstrated through the REPL or a repository.
  However, the situation may arise where some small code snippets also need to
  be provided. In that situation, please add your code below using
  Fenced Code Blocks (https://help.github.com/articles/creating-and-highlighting-code-blocks/)
-->

Commit message:

chore: add minor verbiage change to bug issue template (#2380)
* chore: add targeted github issue templates

* chore: address PR comments

* chore: shuffle some sections and add verbiage

* chore: address comments

* fix: add space in support template

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/BUG.md, after:

---
name: 🐞 Bug Report
about: Something went awry and you'd like to tell us about it.

---

<!--
  ⚡️ katchow! We 💛 issues.

  Please - do not - remove this template.
  Please - do not - skip or remove parts of this template.
  Or your issue may be closed.

  👉🏽 Need help or tech support? Please don't open an issue!
  Head to https://gitter.im/rollup/rollup or https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/rollupjs

  ❤️ Rollup? Please consider supporting our collective:
  👉 https://opencollective.com/rollup/donate
-->

- Rollup Version:
- Operating System (or Browser):
- Node Version:

### How Do We Reproduce?

<!--
  Issues without minimal reproductions will be closed! Please provide one by:
  1. Using the REPL at https://rollupjs.org/repl, or
  2. Work to isolate the problem and provide the exact steps in this issue, or
  3. Provide a minimal repository link (Read https://git.io/fNzHA for instructions).
     These may take more time to triage than the other options.
-->


### Expected Behavior


### Actual Behavior


<!--
  Most issues can be expressed or demonstrated through the REPL or a repository.
  However, the situation may arise where some small code snippets also need to
  be provided. In that situation, please add your code below using
  Fenced Code Blocks (https://help.github.com/articles/creating-and-highlighting-code-blocks/)
-->
