docs/00-introduction.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
---

### Overview

Rollup is a module bundler for JavaScript which compiles small pieces of code into something larger and more complex, such as a library or application. It uses the new standardized format for code modules included in the ES6 revision of JavaScript, instead of previous idiosyncratic solutions such as CommonJS and AMD. ES6 modules let you freely and seamlessly combine the most useful individual functions from your favorite libraries. This will eventually be possible natively, but Rollup lets you do it today.

### Quick start

Install with `npm install --global rollup`. Rollup can be used either through a [command line interface](guide/en#command-line-reference) with an optional configuration file, or else through its [JavaScript API](guide/en#javascript-api). Run `rollup --help` to see the available options and parameters.

> See [rollup-starter-lib](https://github.com/rollup/rollup-starter-lib) and
[rollup-starter-app](https://github.com/rollup/rollup-starter-app) to see
example library and application projects using Rollup

These commands assume the entry point to your application is named `main.js`, and that you'd like all imports compiled into a single file named `bundle.js`.

For browsers:

```console
# compile to a <script> containing a self-executing function ('iife')
$ rollup main.js --file bundle.js --format iife
```

For Node.js:

```console
# compile to a CommonJS module ('cjs')
$ rollup main.js --file bundle.js --format cjs
```

For both browsers and Node.js:

```console
# UMD format requires a bundle name
$ rollup main.js --file bundle.js --format umd --name "myBundle"
```

### The Why

Developing software is usually easier if you break your project into smaller separate pieces, since that often removes unexpected interactions and dramatically reduces the complexity of the problems you'll need to solve, and simply writing smaller projects in the first place [isn't necessarily the answer](https://medium.com/@Rich_Harris/small-modules-it-s-not-quite-that-simple-3ca532d65de4). Unfortunately, JavaScript has not historically included this capability as a core feature in the language.

This finally changed with the ES6 revision of JavaScript, which includes a syntax for importing and exporting functions and data so they can be shared between separate scripts. The specification is now fixed, but it is not yet implemented in browsers or Node.js. Rollup allows you to write your code using the new module system, and will then compile it back down to existing supported formats such as CommonJS modules, AMD modules, and IIFE-style scripts. This means that you get to *write future-proof code*, and you also get the tremendous benefits of...

### Tree-Shaking

In addition to enabling the use of ES6 modules, Rollup also statically analyzes the code you are importing, and will exclude anything that isn't actually used. This allows you to build on top of existing tools and modules without adding extra dependencies or bloating the size of your project.

For example, with CommonJS, the *entire tool or library must be imported*.

```js
// import the entire utils object with CommonJS
const utils = require( './utils' );
const query = 'Rollup';
// use the ajax method of the utils object
utils.ajax(`https://api.example.com?search=${query}`).then(handleResponse);
```

But with ES6 modules, instead of importing the whole `utils` object, we can just import the one `ajax` function we need:

```js
// import the ajax function with an ES6 import statement
import { ajax } from './utils';
const query = 'Rollup';
// call the ajax function
ajax(`https://api.example.com?search=${query}`).then(handleResponse);
```

Because Rollup includes the bare minimum, it results in lighter, faster, and less complicated libraries and applications. Since this approach is based on explicit `import` and `export` statements, it is more effective than simply running an automated minifier to detect unused variables in the compiled output code.


### Compatibility

#### Importing CommonJS

Rollup can import existing CommonJS modules [through a plugin](https://github.com/rollup/rollup-plugin-commonjs).

#### Publishing ES6 Modules

To make sure your ES6 modules are immediately usable by tools that work with CommonJS such as Node.js and webpack, you can use Rollup to compile to UMD or CommonJS format, and then point to that compiled version with the `main` property in your `package.json` file. If your `package.json` file also has a `module` field, ES6-aware tools like Rollup and [webpack 2+](https://webpack.js.org/) will [import the ES6 module version](https://github.com/rollup/rollup/wiki/pkg.module) directly.

### Links

- step-by-step [tutorial video series](https://code.lengstorf.com/learn-rollup-js/), with accompanying written walkthrough
- miscellaneous issues in the [wiki](https://github.com/rollup/rollup/wiki)

Commit message:

1.0 changes (#2293)
* Add English docs to repo

* emit watch changes as a plugin hook

* deprecate asset dependencies

* 1.0 API changest status

* watcher interface simplifications

* Add new option errors

* Make sure only valid JS is piped to stdout

* Refine error handling to include dyamic imports

* Fix output sorting

* 1.0: deprecations (#2409)

* emit watch changes as a plugin hook

* fix path require

* deprecate asset dependencies

* renderChunk hook to replace transformChunk

* renderChunk to follow all transformBundle tests, type definition

* 1.0 deprecations

* legacy deprecations

* new deprecation tests

* type fix, output options deprecations

* type fixes

* deprecation deprecations

* Only print file ids in plugin warnings and errors if present

* Upgrading to Acorn 6 (#2486)

* WIP Upgrading to Acorn 6

* Fix rollup-plugin-commonjs issue, remaining type issues and tests

* Sort options list in docs (no content changes)

* Make sure --input option supports named entries as well as default CLI options

* Make preferConst an output option

* Small type fixes

* Externalise acorn

* Allow the `d` alias for the `--dir` option

* Further refine types and make sure returning false from resolveId marks
imports as external

* Thoroughly review and update docs

docs/00-introduction.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
---

### Overview

Rollup is a module bundler for JavaScript which compiles small pieces of code into something larger and more complex, such as a library or application. It uses the new standardized format for code modules included in the ES6 revision of JavaScript, instead of previous idiosyncratic solutions such as CommonJS and AMD. ES modules let you freely and seamlessly combine the most useful individual functions from your favorite libraries. This will eventually be possible natively everywhere, but Rollup lets you do it today.

### Quick start

Install with `npm install --global rollup`. Rollup can be used either through a [command line interface](guide/en#command-line-reference) with an optional configuration file, or else through its [JavaScript API](guide/en#javascript-api). Run `rollup --help` to see the available options and parameters.

> See [rollup-starter-lib](https://github.com/rollup/rollup-starter-lib) and
[rollup-starter-app](https://github.com/rollup/rollup-starter-app) to see
example library and application projects using Rollup

These commands assume the entry point to your application is named `main.js`, and that you'd like all imports compiled into a single file named `bundle.js`.

For browsers:

```console
# compile to a <script> containing a self-executing function ('iife')
$ rollup main.js --file bundle.js --format iife
```

For Node.js:

```console
# compile to a CommonJS module ('cjs')
$ rollup main.js --file bundle.js --format cjs
```

For both browsers and Node.js:

```console
# UMD format requires a bundle name
$ rollup main.js --file bundle.js --format umd --name "myBundle"
```

### The Why

Developing software is usually easier if you break your project into smaller separate pieces, since that often removes unexpected interactions and dramatically reduces the complexity of the problems you'll need to solve, and simply writing smaller projects in the first place [isn't necessarily the answer](https://medium.com/@Rich_Harris/small-modules-it-s-not-quite-that-simple-3ca532d65de4). Unfortunately, JavaScript has not historically included this capability as a core feature in the language.

This finally changed with the ES6 revision of JavaScript, which includes a syntax for importing and exporting functions and data so they can be shared between separate scripts. The specification is now fixed, but it is only implemented in modern browsers and not finalised in Node.js. Rollup allows you to write your code using the new module system, and will then compile it back down to existing supported formats such as CommonJS modules, AMD modules, and IIFE-style scripts. This means that you get to *write future-proof code*, and you also get the tremendous benefits of...

### Tree-Shaking

In addition to enabling the use of ES modules, Rollup also statically analyzes the code you are importing, and will exclude anything that isn't actually used. This allows you to build on top of existing tools and modules without adding extra dependencies or bloating the size of your project.

For example, with CommonJS, the *entire tool or library must be imported*.

```js
// import the entire utils object with CommonJS
const utils = require( './utils' );
const query = 'Rollup';
// use the ajax method of the utils object
utils.ajax(`https://api.example.com?search=${query}`).then(handleResponse);
```

But with ES modules, instead of importing the whole `utils` object, we can just import the one `ajax` function we need:

```js
// import the ajax function with an ES6 import statement
import { ajax } from './utils';
const query = 'Rollup';
// call the ajax function
ajax(`https://api.example.com?search=${query}`).then(handleResponse);
```

Because Rollup includes the bare minimum, it results in lighter, faster, and less complicated libraries and applications. Since this approach can utilise explicit `import` and `export` statements, it is more effective than simply running an automated minifier to detect unused variables in the compiled output code.


### Compatibility

#### Importing CommonJS

Rollup can import existing CommonJS modules [through a plugin](https://github.com/rollup/rollup-plugin-commonjs).

#### Publishing ES Modules

To make sure your ES modules are immediately usable by tools that work with CommonJS such as Node.js and webpack, you can use Rollup to compile to UMD or CommonJS format, and then point to that compiled version with the `main` property in your `package.json` file. If your `package.json` file also has a `module` field, ESM-aware tools like Rollup and [webpack 2+](https://webpack.js.org/) will [import the ES module version](https://github.com/rollup/rollup/wiki/pkg.module) directly.
